1. What is Database?

A: A database is an organized collection of data, stored and retrieved digitally from a remote or local computer system. Databases can be vast and complex.

2. What is DBMS?

A: DBMS stands for Database Management System. DBMS is a system software which is responsible for the creation, retrieval, updation, and management of the database.

3. What is RDBMS? How is it different from DBMS?

A: RDBMS stands for Relational Database Management System. The key difference is that RDBMS stores data in the form of a collection of tables, and relations can be  

   defined between the common fields of these tables and  in DBMS, the data is stored in a hierarchical arrangement.

4. What is SQL?

A: SQL stands for Structured Query Language. It is the standard language for relational database management systems. It is especially useful for handling the organized data comprised of entities and relations between different entities of the data.

5. What is the difference between SQL and MySQL?

A: SQL is a standard language for retrieving and manipulating structured databases and on the other hand MySQL is a relational database management system.

6. What are Tables and Fields?

A: A table is an organized collection of data stored in the form of rows and columns. Columns can be categorized as vertical and rows as horizontal. The columns in a table are called fields while the rows can be referred to as records.

7. What are Constraints in SQL?

A: NOT NULL -    Restricts NULL value from being inserted into a column.
   CHECK -       Verifies that all values in a field satisfy a condition.
   DEFAULT -     Automatically assigns a default value if no value has been specified for the field.
   UNIQUE -      Ensures unique values to be inserted into the field.
   INDEX -       Indexes a field providing faster retrieval of records.
   PRIMARY KEY - Uniquely identifies each record in a table.
   FOREIGN KEY - Ensures referential integrity for a record in another table.

8. What is an inner join?

A: It helps to retrieve the records that have matching values in both tables involved in the joining process. This is the widely used joining method for queries.

9. What is a left outer join?

A: It helps to retrieve all the records from the left and the matched records from the right table.

10. What is a right outer join?

A: It helps to retrieve all the records from the right and the matched records from the left table.

11. What is a full outer join?

A: It helps to retrieve all the records where there is a match in either the left or right table.

12. What is a cross join?

A: Cross join can be defined as a cartesian product of the two tables included in the joining process.

13. What is an Index?

A: A database index is a data structure that provides a quick lookup of data in a column or columns of a table.

14. What is an unique index?

A: Unique indexes are indexes that help maintain data integrity by ensuring that no two rows of data in a table have identical key values. 

15. What is a non unique index?

A: Non unique indexes are used to improve query performance by maintaining a sorted order of data values which are frequently used.

16. What is a clustered index?

A: A clustered index is an index which defines the physical order in which table records are stored in a database and there can be only one clustered index per table.

By default a clustered index is created on the primary key column.

17. What is a non clustered index?

A: A nonclustered index is an index structure which separates from the data stored in a table that reorders one or more selected columns.Multiple nonclustered indexes

   on a table can be created.

18. What is the difference between clustered and non clustered index?

A: Clustered index modifies the way records are stored in a database based on the indexed column. A non-clustered index creates a separate entity within the table
 
   which references the original table.

   Clustered index is used for easy and speedy retrieval of data from the database, whereas, fetching records from the non-clustered index is relatively slower.

   In SQL, a table can have a single clustered index whereas it can have multiple non-clustered indexes.

19. What is Data integrity?

A: Data integrity is the assurance of accuracy and consistency of data over its entire life span.

20. What is a Query?

A: A query is a request for information from a database table.

21. What is a Subquery?

A: A subquery is a query within another query, also known as nested query or inner query. 

22.What is union?

A: The union operator combines and returns the result set retrieved by two or more SELECT statements.

23. What is minus?

A: The minus operator is used to remove duplicates from the result set.

24. what is intersect?

A: The INTERSECT clause in SQL is used to combine two SELECT statements but the dataset returned by the INTERSECT statement will be the intersection of the data-sets of the two SELECT statements.

25. What is Cursor?

A: A database cursor is a control structure that allows for the traversal(the act or process of passing across, over, or through) of records in a database.

26. What are Entities and Relationships?

A: Entity: An entity can be a real-world object, either tangible or intangible, that can be easily identifiable.

   Relationships: Relations or links between entities that have something to do with each other.

27. What are the different types of relationships in SQL?

A: One-to-One - This can be defined as the relationship between two tables where each record in one table is associated with the maximum of one record in the other table.

One-to-Many & Many-to-One - This is the most commonly used relationship where a record in a table is associated with multiple records in the other table.

Many-to-Many - This is used in cases when multiple instances on both sides are needed for defining a relationship.

Self-Referencing Relationships - This is used when a table needs to define a relationship with itself.

28. What is an Alias in SQL?

A: An alias is a temporary name assigned to the table or table column for the purpose of a particular SQL query.

29. What is a View?

A: A view in SQL is a virtual table based on the result-set of an SQL statement.

30. What is Normalization?

A: Normalization represents the way of organizing structured data in the database efficiently.

31.  What is Denormalization?

A: Denormalization is the inverse process of normalization, where the normalized schema is converted into a schema that has redundant information.

32. What are the various forms of Normalization?

A: 1.First Normal Form   : A relation is in first normal form if every attribute in that relation is a single-valued attribute.

   2.Second Normal Form  : A relation is in second normal form if it satisfies the conditions for the first normal form and does not contain any partial dependency.s

   3.Third Normal Form   : A relation is said to be in the third normal form, if it satisfies the conditions for the second normal form and there is no transitive  

                      dependency between the non-prime attributes.

   4.Fourth Normal Form  : Fourth normal form is a level of database normalization where there are no non-trivial multivalued dependencies other than a candidate 

                         key.

   5.Fifth Normal Form   :  A relation is said to be in 5NF if and only if it satisfies 4NF and no join dependency exists.

   6.Boyce-Codd Normal Form : A relation is in Boyce-Codd Normal Form if satisfies the conditions for third normal form and for every functional dependency.

33. What is TRUNCATE statement?

A: TRUNCATE statement is used to delete all the rows from the table and free the space containing the table.

34. What is DELETE statement?

A: DELETE statement is used to delete rows from a table.

35. What is DROP statement?

A: DROP statement is used to remove an object from the database.

36. What are the Aggregate functions?

A: AVG() -   Calculates the mean of a collection of values.
   COUNT() - Counts the total number of records in a specific table or view.
   MIN() -   Calculates the minimum of a collection of values.
   MAX() -   Calculates the maximum of a collection of values.
   SUM() -   Calculates the sum of a collection of values.
   FIRST() - Fetches the first element in a collection of values.
   LAST() -  Fetches the last element in a collection of values.

37. What are the Scaler functions?

A: LEN() -    Calculates the total length of the given field (column).
   UCASE() -  Converts a collection of string values to uppercase characters.
   LCASE() -  Converts a collection of string values to lowercase characters.
   MID() -    Extracts substrings from a collection of string values in a table.
   CONCAT() - Concatenates two or more strings.
   RAND() -   Generates a random collection of numbers of a given length.
   ROUND() -  Calculates the round-off integer value for a numeric field (or decimal point values).
   NOW() -    Returns the current date & time.
   FORMAT() - Sets the format to display a collection of values.

38. What is User defined function? What are its various types?

A: The user defined functions in SQL are like functions in any other programming language which accept parameters, perform complex calculations, and return a value.

   There is two types of user defined functions:

   Inline: Returns a table data type based on a single SELECT statement.

   Multi-statement: Returns a tabular result-set but, unlike inline, multiple SELECT statements can be used inside the function body.

39. What is OLTP?

A: OLTP stands for Online Transaction Processing, is a class of software applications capable of supporting transaction-oriented programs.

40. What is OLAP?

A: OLAP stands for Online Analytical Processing, a class of software programs that are characterized by the relatively low frequency of online transactions.

41. What is Collation?

A: Collation refers to a set of rules that determine how data is sorted and compared.

42. What are the different types of Collation Sensitivity?

A: Case sensitivity:   A and a are treated differently.
   Accent sensitivity: a and รก are treated differently.
   Kana sensitivity:   Japanese kana characters Hiragana and Katakana are treated differently.
   Width sensitivity:  Same character represented in single-byte (half-width) and double-byte (full-width) are treated differently.

38. What is SQl injection?

A: It is a type of database attack method where malicious SQL statements are inserted into an entry field of database such that once it is executed the database is open for an attacker.                 

39. what is magic table?

A: Insert and delete tables are created when the trigger is fired for any DML command.Those tables are known as magic tables.This tables are used inside the triggers for data transaction.

40. What is SQl cursor?

A: In a relational database, opreations are made on a set of rows.

   For example, a select statement returns a set of rows which is called as a result set.

   But somtimes the applicaions logic needs to work with a row at a time rther than the entire result set at once.This can be done using cursors.

41. What is referential integrity?

A: It refers to the consistecy that must be maintained between primary and foreign keys that is every foreign key value must have a corresponding primary key value.

42. How the exceptions can be handled in SQL server programming?

A: Exceptions or runtime errors are handled by "TRY-CATCH" constructs.Generally writng scripts insde the try block and error handling in the catch block.

43. What is an execution plan?

A: It is basically a route map which is graphically or textually shows the data retrival method choosen by the SQL server query optimizer.

44. What is trigger?

A: It allows us to execute a batch of SQL code when a table event occurs. Example: insert, update, delete etc.

45. What is white box testing?

A: It is also known as "glasss box testing","transparent testing","clear box testing","open box testing","code based testing".White box testing is performed to check the internal structure, security holes, coding process weakness, input variables, expected output, loops, statement, object, vriables, functions.

46. What is black box testing?

A: Black Box Testing is a software testing method in which the functionalities of software applications are tested without having knowledge of internal code structure,implementation details and internal paths.

47. What is an identity?

A: It is a column that automatically generates numeric values.

48. What is composite primary key?

A: It is a set of columns whose values uniquely identify every row in a table.

49. Difference between Rank & Dens Rank?

A:                  Rank                                                    Dense Rank

    i.Rank gives you the ranking within                    i.Dense Rank gives you the ranking within
      your ordered partition, but it creates                 your ordered partition, but it does not create
      gap.                                                   any gap.
      
    ii.Rank will skip to the next available               ii.Dense Rank will use the next chronological
      ranking value.                                         ranking value.

50. Difference between Primary key & Unique key?

A:               Primary key                                                Unique key

    i.A table can have only one primary key.               i.A table may have more than one unique key.
      
   ii.Primary key can't have any null value.              ii.Unique key may have only one null value.

  iii.Primary key is a clustered index.                  iii.Unique key is a unique non clustered index.
      
   iv.Primary key supports an auto increment              iv.Unique key does't support an auto icrement
               
      value.                                                 value.

51. Difference between Primary key & Foreign key & Surrogate keys?

A:         Primary key                              Foreign key                                 Surrogate key                                                      

i. It is a column or a set of columns     i.It is a column or a set of columns        i.Surrogate keys join the dimension 

   in a table whose values uniquely         in a table whose values correspond           tables to the fact table.   
     
   identify a row in the table.             to the values of the primary key              

                                            in another table.                             


ii. Primary key does't store null        ii.Foreign key can accept more than          ii.            NA.
           
    values.                                 one null values.           


iii.Each table can have only one        iii.Each table can have multiple              iii.           NA.

    primary key.                            foreign key.



















